So as part of testing, there was that
question someone asked in the class.
About whether it's possible to create an
extension of a declaration file and name
it something else so it doesn't interfere
with other foxy declaration file?
Now, there's a little bit of
a flood premise to this question.
And I just wanna emphasize again,
that type checking is a global operation.
So there's no sense of like,
in some of these files,
I use this one declaration file, and
these other files I use another.
It's one thing, it's a holistic process
that happens to your entire App.
So if you want an override to happen,
that override applies everywhere.
What you can do is import types from
one place and export them as something
different, but that is not the same
thing as sort of like patching React.
If you patch React,
that patch happens everywhere, right, so
think of it almost like you're
programming with globals.
There's one React and
its types are represented once
many places may refer to them.
But any little adjustments that you make
to those, they happen for your whole App.
The question is, why is it that we
have to use these tools and not Juxt,
Juxt, or the standard tools we're
used to when writing our tests?
So there are many ways I could answer
this, but I really only need one,
I think there's one compelling
answer I can give that is enough.
And that is the following,
You can have bugs
in your types that allow
too many things to happen,
bugs where your type
information becomes too wide.
Let me introduce a bug.
Does anyone wanna argue
that this is not a bug,
this is not a problem that I just created?
I took this interface and
I made it in any, what will this break?
Nothing, it won't break anything and
that's a problem.
It should break lots of things,
it's too general,
it allows things that it shouldn't allow.
Juxt can't catch this,
Juxt we'll be perfectly happy
to let you pass in team as
an argument to return a team.
And there will be any, any, any,
any, any suggests can't catch this.
It's really all about those negative test
cases, which are really hard to write and
something like, you're just types.
Where you wanna make sure
certain things are not allowed,
certain things should raise errors,
certain things should be impossible.
It is as important to
maintain those conditions,
as it is to maintain things that
should work, should work, and
things that shouldn't work
must not be allowed to work.
And this is a kind of error that your
regular test suite is just not gonna
be able to catch.
Whereas over here, I'll tell you,
this one will catch it, right?
So even if I fix this file, I introduced
the problem here deliberately, right?
So one should be a Team and
one shouldn't, but
the bug I just introduced will have both
of these to be regarded as an ITeam.
Uhuh, what happened here?
Expect non assignable, no,
I would expect this to fail,
There it goes.
I must not have saved something, so it's
telling me a no is assignable to an any.
And I was supposed to check and make
sure this was not allowed to happen and
it could happen, that's a problem.
I can't really write the same
kind of test in Juxt,
not in a way that produces good
assertion errors like this.
So that's the answer, you need this
mostly from negative test cases.
And this is so
often overlooked in TypeScript code and
his kinda bug happens all the time.
It'll just be like a patched version
of some definitely typed package,
that'll introduce something like this.
And you'll just wonder, it just takes,
I've spent weeks tracking down bugs,
this would make easy to fix.
And, instead,
I was just this big chase to try and
figure out what the heck is going on.
And, I ended up having to
write these tests, anyway,
because that's how you track
this kind of thing down.
You start saying, okay, well, this should
be possible and this should be impossible.
And you just keep adding these cases
as you try to find like, okay.
So here's the thing that
shouldn't be allowed to happen and
it's happening, now I know where to look.
But it's just really, really tricky to
find these problems, every failure of
this nature will be mysterious and
time consuming without a good test suite.
So, thanks so much for
spending the day with me talking
about professional TypeScript.
I hope that you feel that you're not only
able to use the programming language now.
You're familiar with some of the best
in class tools that when put together,
make life easier.
I hope you automate things like
your various types of tests.
And I hope that this will be
the beginning of your exploration deeper
into this ecosystem.
As this language continues
to gain in popularity and
become one of the most exciting parts
of the web development ecosystem.